v1.15 blog post. (#245)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2024/07/kubewarden-1-15-release.md

your Kubernetes cluster. By integrating this directly into the CRD, Kubewarden
ensures a more streamlined and consistent approach to handling node
tolerations, making it easier to deploy policies in diverse and dynamic
environments.

## Centralized Management of Tolerations, Affinity, and Anti-Affinity 

In line with making the deployment process more efficient, Kubewarden v1.15
introduces a central place where tolerations, affinity, and anti-affinity rules
are specified and enforced across all components of the stack (controller deployment,
audit scanner cronjob and default PolicyServer). This centralized management
approach not only simplifies the configuration process but also ensures
consistency and reduces the chances of configuration drift. By defining these
rules once and applying them universally, users can achieve a more reliable and
predictable policy enforcement setup.

:::warning
The affinity configuration previously present in the default policy server values 
has been removed. Then, if you were using it, you need to migrate your configuration
:::

## Technical Debt Reduction in Kubewarden Controller 

> In v1.15, significant efforts have been made to reduce technical debt in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For v1.15, significant efforts were made to reduce technical debt in the
```

Kubewarden controller, ensuring better performance, easier maintenance, and a
more robust foundation. Key changes include:

- **Updated Golang Linter**: The stricter linter catches potential issues
  early, ensuring higher code quality.
- **Removed --default-policy-server CLI Flag**: The default policy server name
  is now always "default," simplifying configuration.
- **Updated to Kubebuilder 4.0.0**: The controller code now uses Kubebuilder
  4.0.0.
- **Refactored Reconciler Code**: The code is split into multiple
  subreconcilers following the Subreconciler pattern, enhancing manageability
  and modularity.
- **File/Package Renaming**: Files and packages have been renamed for better
  readability and navigation.

These changes improve functionality and set the stage for more streamlined
development and maintenance, reflecting a commitment to maintaining a
high-quality codebase.

> 

Reviewer 2: @fabriziosestito pointed out the old code (before 1.15) used to kubernetes clients, one of them was not using the cache feature. With the refactoring this client is gone, meaning we have further reduced the amount of requests made against the Kubernetes API :partying_face:

Reviewer 2: @jvanz can you add some lines about this improvement? Maybe this could be worth a new section "performance improvements"

Author: I've added a new item for this topic

## Policy Grouping Code Implementation 

The v1.15 release marks the beginning of implementing [RFC 0020: Policy
Group](https://github.com/kubewarden/rfc/blob/main/rfc/0020-policy-group.md),
starting with changes to the policy server. This feature allows users to create

> complex policies by combining simpler ones, leveraging existing policies to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
complex policies by combining simpler ones and using existing policies to
```

avoid custom builds from scratch. The motivation is to increase reusability,
reduce cognitive load, and enable the creation of custom policies through a
DSL-like configuration, thus improving policy management efficiency and

> flexibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
flexibility.

This feature is not yet available to Kubernetes users, since we've not yet introduced
the set of new Custom Resource Definition that are required to manage policy groups.
This will be part of the next release of Kubewarden.

In the meantime, users running Kubewarden Policy Server in stand-alone mode, can
can already use this feature.

> **Note:** in case you have missed, it's possible to use Kubewarden's Policy Server
> to validate any kind of JSON payload. See [this section](https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/raw-policies)
> of our documentation.
```

## CEL Policy Enhancements 

The Common Expression Language (CEL) policies in Kubewarden have received two
notable enhancements:

- **OCI Capability for Fetching Configs**: Now includes an OCI capability to
  fetch container image configurations, making it easier to retrieve and apply
  policy configurations from OCI-compliant registries.
- **Lazy Variable Evaluation**: Introduces lazy variable evaluation, deferring
  variable evaluation until needed, thus improving performance and efficiency
  by reducing unnecessary computations.

## Extended policies CRDs with MatchConditions 

Lastly, the ClusterAdmissionPolicy and AdmissionPolicy CRDs have been extended

> to include `matchConditions`. This enhancement provides users with more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to include [`matchConditions`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#matching-requests-matchconditions).
This enhancement provides users with more
```

granular control over policy enforcement by allowing them to specify conditions
under which policies should be applied. Therefore, users can ensure that the

> right rules are enforced in the right scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
right rules are enforced in the right scenarios.

The propagation of `matchConditions` can be done only on these
versions of Kubernetes:

- 1.26 or earlier: not available. The `matchConditions` are ignored
- 1.27, 1.28, 1.29: available only when the `AdmissionWebhookMatchConditions`
  [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) is enabled. Otherwise, the `matchConditions` are ignored
- 1.30 or later: always available, no action required
```

---
title: Kubewarden 1.15 release
authors:
  - Jose Guilherme Vanz

> date: 2024-07-17

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
date: 2024-07-30
```

> ⚠️ **Warning** ⚠️
> The affinity configuration previously present in the default policy server values 
> has been removed. Then, if you were using it, you need to migrate your configuration

## Technical Debt Reduction in Kubewarden Controller 

For v1.15, significant efforts were made to reduce technical debt in the
Kubewarden controller, ensuring better performance, easier maintenance, and a
more robust foundation. Key changes include:

- **Updated Golang Linter**: The stricter linter catches potential issues
  early, ensuring higher code quality.
- **Removed --default-policy-server CLI Flag**: The default policy server name
  is now always `default`, simplifying configuration.
- **Updated to Kubebuilder 4.0.0**: The controller code now uses Kubebuilder
  4.0.0.
- **Refactored Reconciler Code**: The code is split into multiple
  subreconcilers following the Subreconciler pattern, enhancing manageability
  and modularity.
- **File/Package Renaming**: Files and packages have been renamed for better
  readability and navigation.

These changes improve functionality and set the stage for more streamlined
development and maintenance, reflecting a commitment to maintaining a

> high-quality codebase.

Reviewer 3: chef's kiss :D
